CS559 – Computer Vision
Assignment  No. 2 
Due October 3, 2018*

    1. (a) What is an interchange format?  (b) Give three examples of interchange formats.
(c) What is the signature of a PGM format. Give two examples of the signature.

    2. (a) What is patterning in printing? (b) What is a dither matrix and how is it used?
(c) Explain the principle and operation of error diffusion for printing.
 
    3. Explain conditions under which the use of a lookup table (LUT), instead of calculating the mapping pixel by pixel, reduces the computation.  Express the conditions in terms of number of graylevels (L) and resolution n. 

    4. Many (infinite number) of passes of contrast stretching with the mapping    is applied to a perfectly equalized 8-bit input image.  Draw and carefully label the normalized histogram of the output image. 
			
    5.  An 8-bit image has a normalized histogram defined by and .
Suppose that each pixel is ANDed with 0100 0000, and is set to white if the result of ANDing is non-zero, otherwise is set to black if the result is zero (this operation is called bit-plane slicing). Draw and carefully label the normalized histogram of the resulting output image.

Programs: 

    A.  The purpose of this assignment is to detect the motion and speed of a moving car. Stay still and take two (or move) pictures of a moving car in your neighborhood (better put camera on a stand so it remains still). Either measure or assume you know the time between the two frames (pictures) you took. Your task is to write a program with the two images as input and to find the speed of the moving car from the changes in the two consecutive frames.  This assignment leaves a lot of details for you to work out, for example finding object to image size ratio, etc. I am not expecting from you for a sophisticated method, rather the main point is to explore and appreciate challenges to such a problem.  

    B. The purpose of this program is to understand the representation and manipulation of colors in an image. Consider a color image and suppose we want to keep a particular object in the image in its original color and turn other parts of the image into greyscale. As an example is the RedRose.jpg that should turn into RedRoseGray.jpg. Write a program to achieve this, and apply your program to two images of your choice to demonstrate the effectiveness of your program.  



                                                         RedRose.jpg







RedRoseGray.jpg
